# Skeleton 

__A standard project skeleton__

Skeleton provides a simple structure to help you quickly setup new projects, 
and prevent you from forgetting the finer yet important details of creating and 
maintaining a software project. 


## Directory Structure

When you manage a software project, one important but often overlooked aspect,
is creating a solid directory structure. Below are some preferred directory names.
They're meant to be opt-in. If your project doesn't need a particular directory,
then don't include it. However, if you do need it to manage a particular type of
content, these names are the most common. Using them will help people new to your
project.

**There isn't a `skel` command for creating a directory structure.** The various
types of potential projects, are too varied to create a command that would satisfy
a wide array of users.

### Core Directories

* **docs** - Project documentation written by and for humans about your project
* **phpdocs** - the documentation generated by PHPDoc
* **src** - the source code of your application
* **tests** - the tests that exercise and verify the code of your application
* **bin** - commands you want to run.
* **log** - capture information about what happens while your application runs 
* **vendor** - this is managed by Composer

### Optional Directories

* **build** - this is for the creation of generated files.
* **config** - for files that are used for configuration, that are not environment specific
* **public** - only needed for web projects. Represents the root of the website.
	* **css**
	* **fonts**
	* **js**
	* **assets**
		* audio
		* docs
		* photos
		* video
	* **images**
		* buttons
		* backgrounds
		* logos:	
	* **uploads** 
* **data** - to manage things like data source files (e.g. CSV)
* **translations** - files that translate your application into other languages 


 



## Installation

1. Download the latest ZIP file from [https://github.com/andrewwoods/skeleton](https://github.com/andrewwoods/skeleton)
1. Expand the ZIP file
1. Add the 'bin' directory to your path
1. Advanced features
    * Install [https://phpdoc.org](PHPDoc) to generate developer documenation from your comments
    * Install [https://phpunit.de](PHPUnit) to create and run tests to improve your code quality

## Create a New Project Directory

1. Create the top-level project directories you need
1. Create Essential Project Docs

    ```
    $ skel docs readme contributing
    ```

1. Create a License for your project

    ```
    $ skel license mit
    ```

## Ideas

* `skel php` for PHP-related files

    - composer ( autoloading )
    - docker
    - symfony console application
    - symfony console command

* `skel js` for JS-related files


## Table of Contents

* Review the [CHANGELOG.md](CHANGELOG.md)



## Submit an issue

[Skeleton issues](https://github.com/andrewwoods/skeleton/issues)



## Credits and Acknowledgments

* **Project Creator**:  [Andrew Woods](http://andrewwoods.net) on [GitHub](https://github.com/andrewwoods/)


